Hello, Dade City!

I am so excited about being here. Thank you, all for this really warm, wonderful welcome. And I thank, on behalf of all of us I want to thank Alicia Machado for that introduction and for sharing her story with us. Alicia will be voting for the very first time in this election, and I am very grateful for her support. I'm also delighted that we're joined today by your great senator Bill Nelson and his wife Grace.

I also want to thank Representative Amanda Hickman from the Florida State House, Michael Cox, chairman of the Greater Pasco Chamber of Commerce, Michael Ledbetter, who is the Pasco County Democratic executive committee chair and his wife Beverly. And thanks to retired Colonel Wilson Elton for his pledge of allegiance. And thanks to all the elected officials here. And I especially want to thank all of you for not just joining us but helping us to get out the vote in this last week!

It's almost hard to believe, isn't it? There are only seven days left in this election.

So are you ready to vote?

Are you ready to volunteer these last seven days?

I hope too that you ready to elect Patrick Murphy to the United States Senate! Patrick, who's been in Congress, will be an independent voice for Florida families. And I am so excited to think about what he could do, because unlike his opponent, he's never been afraid to stand up to Donald Trump.

Now somebody asked me the other day, 'Why do you keep coming back to Florida?' Just look around folks. I mean it is a beautiful, and I have lots of friends, but it's also really important in this election. Florida can decide who our next president is, which will affect the nation and the world. And I want to make sure that every voter in Florida spends these next seven days thinking about what's at stake in this election. Because honestly I believe this may be the most important election of our lifetimes.

One week from today, we will be choosing our next president and commander-in-chief of the United States. I don't think the choice could be any clearer. I have spent my career fighting for children and families. I have served in the United States Senate, served on the Senate Armed Services Committee. I was in the Situation Room when we brought Osama Bin Laden to justice. I represented you as your secretary of state, going to 112 countries, negotiating with friend and foe alike. I am ready to serve if you give me the great honor of being your president.

Now, I do have to say that I think that stands in contrast to my opponent. And maybe for you if you think about all of the issues that separate Donald Trump from me, it could be his dangerous statements about nuclear weapons.

When a journalist told Donald Trump that people were worried about how casually he talks about using nuclear weapons, he said, 'Well then why are we making them?'

And I have to tell you yesterday I was in Ohio, and I was introduced by a gentleman who was one of our officers in charge of launching nuclear weapons if the order ever came from our president. And what he told the crowd - it was a big crowd at Kent State University - I think every voter should hear. Basically - his name was Bruce Blair - he said that, having had the responsibility of sitting in a bunker, being responsible for the codes and the keys to our nuclear weapons, he knows that when a president makes the order to launch a nuclear attack, there is no appeal. There is no veto. And that is why he has joined with dozens of former Air Force officers to send a letter to say, 'We need a president with the temperament, the steadiness, the calmness to be in charge of nuclear weapons.' And therefore they cannot support Donald Trump, because he does not have the temperament to be our commander-in-chief and handle those responsibilities.

So when you think about voting, early this week, voting next Tuesday, responsibility for our nuclear weapons is on the ballot.

So is immigration. Do we want to round up millions of people who are here working, raising their families, as he has suggested he will do? I don't think so. I think what we want is to bring them out of the shadows so that they can't be exploited by employers like Donald Trump, who refused to hire Americans and hired undocumented workers so he could pay them less. I don't think that's right.

Now maybe for some of you, what Donald Trump said about prisoners of war will be enough reason to vote against him, somebody who questioned the patriotism and the service of John McCain because he was a prison of war. We need a Commander in Chief who respects the service and sacrifice of the men and women who wear our uniform.

Or maybe for some of you, it's what he said about a judge born in Indiana, who just happened to be assigned the case brought by people who were defrauded by the phony Trump University. And so Trump said, 'Well, we can't trust him because his parents were born in Mexico.' Now Paul Ryan, the Republican Speaker of the House, called - well, but wait a minute, - he called what Trump said about that distinguished federal judge, 'The definition of a racist comment.'

And then Trump went on to attack a Gold Star family whose son, Captain Khan, died defending our country, simply because that family was Muslim.

And then let's not forget, Trump spent years, years insisting that President Obama was not born in the United States, even after the birth certificate was produced. Honestly if this were something new, I think we'd all be asking ourselves, 'Well, what does he have against President Obama?' Or what does he have against me? But this is not new. I know I'm reaching out to Republicans and Independents as well as Democrats because I want to be the president for all Americans.

And here's what I want you to tell. I want you to tell your Republican friends, in 1987 Donald Trump took out a Donald Trump took out a $100,000 ad in the New York Times to criticize President Reagan. He said, 'Our leaders are the laughing stock of the world.' So this is a man who thinks that he is better than President Reagan, better than President Obama - literally better than anybody, I guess. And, when you think about it, what he said at the convention, 'I alone can fix it,' runs counter to who we are as Americans. We work together.

So there are many reasons why I think it is fair to conclude that Donald Trump is unqualified and unfit to be president. But today, I want to just spend a few minutes focusing in particular about what he has said and what he has done to woman and girls because - Any of you see the debates? I stood next to Donald for four and a half hours during those three debates, proving conclusively I have the stamina to be President of the United States. And during those debates, Donald always used to say, 'What have you been doing for 30 years?' And I always found that kind of odd, because he could Google it and find out. And so I've been a lawyer, and I've been a first lady, and I've been a senator, and I've been Secretary of State, and I've been a wife and a mother and a grandmother and a friend and a churchgoer, and for my entire life I've been a woman.

And when I think about what we now know about Donald Trump and what he's been doing for 30 years, he sure has spent a lot of time demeaning, degrading, insulting, and assaulting women. And, I've got to tell you, some of what we've learned - some of this stuff is very upsetting. I would, frankly, rather be here talking about nearly anything else, like how we're going to create good jobs and get the economy working for everybody, not just those at the top. How we're going to make college affordable for every single family, because I have a plan that if your family makes less than $125,000, you will not pay tuition to go to a state college or university. And if you're above that, it will be debt free, and we will help you pay back the debt you already have so you can get out from under it.

But I can't just talk about all of the good things we want to do, because people are making up their minds. This is a consequential choice, so we've got to talk about something that, frankly, is painful, because it matters. We can't just wish it away. And a lot of his supporters don't like to hear this. I don't blame them. If I were supporting him, I wouldn't want to hear it either, to be honest. But I've got to tell you, I learned way back in elementary school and I learned it in Sunday school: it's not okay to insult people. It's not okay.

And look at what he does. He calls women 'ugly,' 'disgusting,' 'nasty' all the time. He calls women 'pigs,' rates bodies on a scale from 1 to 10. We just heard from Alicia. She was Miss Universe when Donald Trump owned the pageant. Well, he said she put on some weight and it made him angry, so he called her 'Miss Piggy.' He called her 'Miss Housekeeping' because she's a beautiful Latina. He brought a bunch of reporters to a gym to watch him order her around to exercise. Now, he also said, 'This is somebody who likes to eat.' Well, I have to say: who doesn't like to eat? I mean, really, can we just stop for a minute and reflect on the absurdity of Donald Trump finding fault with Miss Universe?

But you've got to ask: why does he do these things? Who acts like this? And, I'll tell you who: a bully, that's who. And thankfully, Alicia refuses to let such a small person get her down. She knows that Donald Trump doesn't get to decide her value in her eyes and in the eyes of her family and her friends.

But what about our girls? What about girls watching all this? What happens to their confidence, their sense of self-worth? If you've got a daughter, a granddaughter, a sister, a mother, a wife, a good friend, someone like this becoming president who insults more than half the population of the United States of America? And what about our boys? This is not someone we want them looking up to.

Not so long ago, I was the mother of a teenage girl. And every day I tried to make sure that she knew she was smart and she was capable, and I'm doing the same thing with my granddaughter and my grandson. Because, let's be honest here, the world has a way of telling our girls exactly the opposite - they don't look right, they're not thin enough, they don't act right, no one will like them unless they change their clothes or straighten their hair or stop being bossy, or whatever the criticism might be. Right?

And I remember, when Chelsea was a teenager, I would wait on the second floor of the White House in the long hall that's there for her to come home from school. And sometimes, we only had a few minutes together. But before she'd run off to talk to her friends or do whatever she was planning to, I would figure out how was the day. We'd talk about what was on her mind. And that time together was really valuable to me as a parent, because we parents, and I know there are a lot of parents here today, we work hard to give our kids a sense of confidence to send them out into the world believing in their own value, and it really is important that we don't let anybody take that away from them. And we want them to be strong, and we don't want them to feel bad about themselves. And we've got to work hard to make sure our boys, just like our girls, have that same sense of positive energy: not negative, not tearing people down - lifting people up and respecting women.

In fact, all of us should respect each other in our country. So, when I look at my granddaughter and my grandson, I am on the same mission. I want them to know they're love, they're cared for, they're respected. I want them to develop a good work ethic. I believe in hard work, and I want them to go out and prove themselves in the world. But that's what I want for every child. I have spent my life doing everything I could to help kids and families. It will be the mission of my presidency. I will get up every day in the White House trying to figure out: how can we knock down the barriers, overcome the challenges so that people living here in Pasco County can get ahead and stay ahead?

So I know there's work to be done. We can't do it with just words alone. We've got to do more to stop treatment about women being somehow objectified. And, oh my gosh, when we heard that tape and we heard what he does to women. I'm not going to repeat it. But you know what Donald Trump was bragging about: grabbing women, mistreating women. And I have to tell you, since that tape came out, twelve women have come 'What he said on that tape is what he did to me.'

And then we heard his response. What he does at his rallies is to go after those women all over again, insulting them. He said he couldn't possibly have said those things because the women weren't attractive enough to assault. 'Look at her,' he said about one woman. 'I don't think so.' About another, he said, 'She wouldn't be my first choice.'

He's also on tape bragging with the radio personality Howard Stern about how he used to go backstage at beauty pageants to barge in on the women while they were getting dressed. He said he did that - he said he did that to 'inspect' them. That was his word - and he said, 'I sort of get away with things like that.' And sure enough, contestants have come forward to say, 'Yes, that's exactly what he did to us.' Now, as bad as that is, he didn't just do it at the Miss USA pageant or the Miss Universe pageant. He's also been accused of doing it at the Miss Teen USA pageant. Contestants say that Donald Trump came in to look at them when they were changing. Some of them were just 15 years old.

We cannot hide from this. We've got to be willing to face it. This man wants to be president of the United States of America and our First Lady, Michelle Obama, spoke for many of us when she said Donald Trump's words have shaken her to her core.

For a lot of women who have gone through something like this in your lives, that's brought back painful memories. And for men who would never, ever talk or act like Donald, it's been shocking to see this. He tried to explain it away as 'locker room talk,' well, I'll tell you what, a lot of professional athletes stood up and said, 'Not in our locker rooms. That does not happen.'

Well, I guess the bottom line is he thinks belittling women makes him a bigger man.

And I don't think there's a woman anywhere who doesn't know what that feels like.

He doesn't look at us and see full human beings, with our dreams and purposes, our own capabilities. And he has shown us that clearly throughout this campaign.

Well, he's very wrong. He is wrong about both the women and the men of this country. He has shown us who he is. Let us on Tuesday show him who we are. We can stand up for what we believe, what we want for our children and grandchildren, what we know is right. And you can go down the list of everything he has said. He doesn't believe in equal pay, he thinks pregnancy is an inconvenience, he won't raise the minimum wage, and he said if he comes home and dinner is not on the table, he gets angry. Instead of supporting women who are out there supporting their families, he wants to make it even harder.

Well, I have a message for him. We're going to fight for affordable childcare. We're going to fight for equal pay for all people. We're going to fight for paid family leave, we're going to fight to make sure everybody gets raising wages in America and that's important because so many people still struggling, still working hard, raising a family, having a hard time getting all of their bills paid. And that's especially true for minimum wage workers - who - two-thirds of whom are women, so we've got work to do my friends. I'm excited because I know we can do this and I will stand up and I will fight for you, I will work for you, I will give my heart to this mission of making our country all it should be. Because instead of Donald Trump's dangerous and divisive vision, mine is positive, optimistic, hopeful and unifying.

But I can't do any of this without your help. Early voting has already begun. Almost 26 millions Americans have already voted and that includes four million right here in Florida. Americans are voting for the kind of better future we can make together. And voting on all the issues that they care about. It may be my name and Donald's name on the ballot but everything you care about, our security, our economy, bringing our country together, the environment, clean water and clean air!

Here in Dade City, you can vote every day from now until November 5th, from 7am to 7pm.

In fact, right now, the East Pasco Government Center is just a few minutes' drive away. You can go there right after this rally and vote. Because, we need everybody to stand up in this election.

And if you have a mail-in ballot at home, send it in when you get home today.

Don't wait to send it back! Talk friends and family and neighbors and co-workers.

Donald Trump's strategy is pretty simple- he said he wants to suppress young people from voting women from voting, people of color from voting, that is a lot of people. By showing up with the biggest turnout ever we will show him and everybody a message that that is not who we are.

Now I know here in this county and this larger region, you probably know some people who are going to vote for Trump. And here is what I want to ask you, I want you to talk with them. Ask them what they care about. Ask them what kind of future they want for their economy. Because Donald Trump's economic plan is slashing taxes on the wealthy and big corporations. I have said that I want the wealthy to pay their fair share and I will not raise taxes on anybody making less than $250,000 a year.

So there could not be, no matter what you care about, a bigger difference between me and Donald Trump, and I hope that you will come out and volunteer for these last seven days.

We are signing up for volunteer shifts making calls, knocking on doors, it really matters, turn out matters.

Please go to hillaryclinton.com to see how you can get involved. Here is what I want to leave you with. You know, I feel like so many of you, our country is already great but we can make is greater. The main reason America is great is because America is good. We are a big hearted, generous people. Not a small minded people. We know that if everybody works together we will get farther together than if we separate people, we push them down, we engage in all the negativity that we have heard too much in this campaign. But sometimes, the fate of even the greatest nations lie in the balance. For America, this is one of those make or break elections. It really is in your hands.

I hope you will think about how you will feel the day after the election on November 9th. are we going to more forward together or are we going to move backwards by someone who wants to bully us? And I hope, I hope you will think about how together we can make a difference, I want to be your partner as well as your president, I want us to create the best possible future for our children and our grandchildren. That is what I will work my heart out to do and I hope you will help me to make a better, fairer, stronger America. Where we prove once and for all that love trumps hate!

Thank you all.Thank you so much! Wow, it is great to be back in Cincinnati. What a beautiful night on the banks of this magnificent river. I am grateful to all of you. I am thrilled to be here with my dear friends Mark and Gabby, and with all of you, because there are just eight days left in what is the most important election of our lifetimes.

Are you ready to work hard in this election and win it? Are you ready to send Ted Strickland to the United States Senate? I've known Ted a long time. He is a champion for workers and families. He knows that Ohio needs more good jobs with rising wages. And he is the kind of person who will actually work to get things done, breaking through the gridlock in Washington. And this is important: unlike his opponent, Ted Strickland has never been afraid to stand up to Donald Trump.

I also want to thank Mayor John Cranley and State Representative Alicia Reece and all the other elected officials, including my friend, the Secretary of State Alison Lundergan Grimes, from across the river in Kentucky. And we are so fortunate to have two other champions for American families with us today. I am awed by the courage and commitment that both Mark and Gabby bring to their work, to do everything they can to help save lives in America.

You know, as Gabby says every day when she goes out, fight, fight, fight. And fight she does. She fights to make sure that we save lives and we prevent injuries and we do it together - to end the epidemic of gun violence that threatens our children, our fellow men and women, our country. And Gabby and Mark know something very important: there is a big majority of Americans, including a majority of gun owners, to stand behind and achieve commonsense gun safety measures. And I am looking forward to working with them as their partner.

You know, you go through life, you go through the campaigns, there are ups and there are downs. And my mother, who had a really difficult life, she told me something that has stayed with me and certainly has come in handy in this campaign. Everybody gets knocked down; what matters is whether you get back up. And throughout this campaign, I have stayed focused on one thing: you - your lives, your families, the problems that keep you up at night. Because that's really what this election is all about. It's not about the noise and the distractions. It's about what kind of country we want for our kids, and what kind of president can help get us there.

I have so much that I want to do with you on behalf of Cincinnati and Ohio and America. And whether or not I get the chance to serve you really depends upon what happens in this election.

Now, earlier today, I was up at Kent State, a great university, and I told them about some of the reasons why I think it's really important to get everybody out to vote in this election. But I started by saying that there's this new email story about - why in the world the FBI would decide to jump into an election without evidence of any wrongdoing with just days to go. That's a really good question. But I want you to know - look, I've said repeatedly I made a mistake, I'm not making any excuses, but I will tell you this. If they want to look at some more emails of one of my staffers, by all means, go ahead, look at them. And I know they will reach the same conclusion they reached when they looked at my emails last year, right? It wasn't even a close call, and I think most people have moved on. They're looking and focused on, okay, who is going to be the next president and commander-in-chief?

Did any of you see the debates? Any of you see the debates? Well, I am - I got a little bit of a chance. I did stand there for four and a half hours with Donald Trump, proving conclusively I have the stamina to do the job. But I did occasionally get a chance to ask people to take a look at my 30 years of public service, my plans for our country, what Tim Kaine and I have said we want to do, and then weigh that against my opponent, what he's done and said. I am running against someone who says he doesn't understand why we can't use nuclear weapons. He actually said, "Then why are we making them?" He wants more countries to have nuclear weapons. He's mentioned Japan, South Korea, even Saudi Arabia. Now, if you are hoping that he might surround himself with good people who would stop his crazy ideas, remember this. When he was asked who he consults with on foreign policy, Donald Trump said he didn't need to consult because, and I quote, "I have a very good brain." He said he knows more about ISIS than our generals do. [Booing.] No, Donald, you don't. And of course, the people that Donald Trump has around him include two men whose activities are also reportedly being investigated because of their ties to Russia, Vladimir Putin, and their allies.

So in these last days, let's not get distracted from the real choice in this election. Donald Trump has proven himself to be temperamentally unfit and totally unqualified to be president and commander-in-chief.

I have to tell you, it does not give me any pleasure saying that. It's not a small thing. I have watched and known a lot of the people who have run for president, both Republicans and Democrats. And look, I've had my disagreements with Republicans. I might have disagreed on policies or principles, but I never doubted their fitness to serve in this office. Donald Trump is different, and that's why there is so much at stake in this election. He has a dark and divisive vision for America that could tear our country apart. Abraham Lincoln understood a house divided against itself cannot stand, and that was over the greatest of challenges - the challenge posed by slavery - and we fought a civil war. But we also have to take stock of how divided we are today, the kinds of divisions that need to be healed to bring people together.

I will tell you this. I want to bring not just Democrats, but Republicans and Independents, people who vote for me and people who vote against me, together. Because I have a very different vision of America. Instead of dark and divisive, it's hopeful and inclusive. It's big-hearted, not small-minded. It is about lifting people up, not putting them down. It's a vision that says, and I believe this with all my heart, we are stronger together. And America is great because America is good. Never forget that. Yes, we have our flaws; of course, we're only humans. But what we have done over the course of our history to keep widening the circle of opportunity and equality and freedom is unlike any other place in the history of the world. So we want an America where women are respected - where our veterans are honored - where parents and families are supported and workers are paid fairly. And we believe in an America where marriage is a right, and discrimination is wrong. An America that leads in the world and lives up to our values, where everyone counts, everyone has a place, and the American dream is big enough for everybody. So the choice could not be clearer and the stakes could not be higher.

When I was at Kent State talking about the threats that Donald Trump poses to our national security, I was really struck. It was a very big crowd, and it was primarily students. And I thought to myself, well, I'm not going to give a rah-rah speech because I really want to talk about what this means to national security. And I was introduced by a gentleman named Bruce Blair, a former Air Force officer in charge of the nuclear codes and keys. A launch officer. And he came out for me, along with now more than 30 launch officers, and basically they said, we cannot support Donald Trump because he should never, ever be near the nuclear codes and keys.

And even the prospect of an actual nuclear war doesn't seem to bother him. "Good luck. Enjoy yourselves, folks," is what he had to say about a potential nuclear conflict in Asia. I wonder if he even knows that a single - a single - nuclear warhead can kill millions of people? That is why dozens of retired nuclear launch officers took the unprecedented step of saying that Donald should, and I quote, "not have his finger on the button." And when it comes to handling a crisis, we've seen in this campaign that Donald Trump loses his cool at the slightest provocation - when he's gotten a tough question from a reporter, or when he's challenged in a debate, or when he sees a protestor at a rally, when he's confronted by his own words. So imagine him in the Oval Office facing a real crisis. [Cries of "No!"] Imagine him plunging us into a war because somebody got under his very thin skin. I hope you'll think about that when you cast your vote in this election. Think about what it takes to lead in a very complicated world, and in whose hands you want to put the safety of our children and grandchildren.

And think about the difference between electing a president who will do nothing and president who will tackle the epidemic of gun violence in America. As Gabby knows so well, 33,000 Americans a year are killed guns. Thousands more are injured. It's an average of 90 people a day dying. Here in Ohio more people are killed by guns than die in car crashes. We have seen moviegoers gunned down in theaters, little children killed in their classrooms, clubgoers massacred in Orlando, nine faithful people murdered at Bible study in Charleston, South Carolina. And we've seen far too many young African American men and women killed by gun violence, which is now the leading cause of death for young black men. And when we think about that, we think of Dontre Hamilton or Jordan Davis or Trayvon Martin and others. I've had the great honor of getting to know their mothers, who have turned their grief into action and their mourning into a movement.

But here's what I want to say. If anything else in our country were killing as many people, people of good faith, people who believe, like we do, in the Second Amendment, people who own guns, people who go hunting, people who are collectors, we would say, hey, wait a minute. This can't go on. We need comprehensive background checks to close the gun show loophole, close the online loophole. And we know here in Ohio a majority of gun owners support these common-sense steps to prevent gun violence because they know we can respect the Second Amendment and keep our kids and communities safe at the same time. And we need to keep guns out of the hands suspected terrorists. If you are too dangerous to fly, you are too dangerous to buy a gun, period.

And look. There is a very clear difference. Donald Trump won't stand up to the gun lobby. He's sold out to them. In fact, the gun lobby is spending more on ads to get Donald Trump elected than any other group, more than $7 million in Ohio alone. And in return, Donald Trump has promised to repeat President Obama's actions to strengthen criminal background checks. Donald says guns should be allowed in nightclubs that serve alcohol. He's even said, on his very first day in office, he would require every school in America to let people carry guns into our classrooms. How can anyone think our schools would be safer with more guns?

So I have stood up to the gun lobby for years, which is why they are running all of these ads against me. And I will stand up to them as president. I will work with Gabby and Mark and Americans for Responsible Solutions to pass common sense reforms because we've got to keep guns out of the wrong hands and help save lives.

I will also get up every day in the White House working my heart out for you, whatever I can do to knock down barriers to empower people, to get the economy working for everybody, not just those at the top. That's how I was raised. I was raised to believe that if you work hard - and I believe in hard work - you should be able to get ahead and stay ahead in America. And I will never ever quit on you. When I tell you I'm going to try to do something that will make a positive difference in your life, I don't care what the political or other barriers are. We're going to find a way over, under, around, or through until we get it done. I've been fighting for families and underdogs my entire life, and I'm not stopping now. Remember, when our opponents go low, we go high. We're not going to be distracted. We're not going to be knocked off course. We know how much this election matters. And everything all of you can do between now and the time that the polls close is going to really count.

Now, the Donald Trump campaign strategy is pretty simple. They've announced it. Their strategy is: get women to stay home, get young people to stay home, and get people of color to stay home. It's all part of his scorched-earth campaign, but it actually adds up to more than half of our whole population when you stop to think about it. And it goes against everything we stand for. So if you're as upset as I am by the campaign that he has run, the things he has said, insulting not just women but immigrants, Latinos, African Americans, prisoners of war, Muslims, veterans, the military - I mean, the list goes on and on. It's almost impossible to understand how somebody could run for president who seems not to like America as much as he does.

So you know the best way to stop him: by showing up with the biggest turnout in history. We need more Americans to vote. And I think we have a chance to get more Americans from all walks of life to vote because we're already seeing record turnout. Twenty-three million people have already voted in this election. And more than one million of them are right here in Ohio. There is no doubt if we vote, we win. So, please, if you haven't voted early, please do so. And please get your friends and your family, everybody you know to vote. Take people to vote with you. Try to help those who might have a little problem getting there.

Make sure that everybody you know understands early voting has begun. And you can go to iwillvote.com to find your nearest early voting location because, make no mistake, whatever issue you care about - I've only mentioned a few tonight, but whatever issue you care about is on the ballot. Now, it may be my name and my opponent's name, but where we stand on these issues, what we've done in the past, what we have said we want to do in the future, that is all on the ballot. The future of our economy is at stake, of our education system is at stake. Fighting climate change and clean, renewable-energy jobs are at stake. LGBT equality is at stake. Equal pay for women is at stake. Actually, in the end, the American dream itself is at stake. So I want you to think about how you will feel on November 9th.

Happy. I think that's the right answer. But just suppose, just suppose you go to bed early. Suppose you go to bed early. Maybe you were too busy to vote or maybe you didn't make calls or knock on doors. I want you to imagine. So you get up early on the morning of the 9th. And you log on to the news to find out, hey, what's going on, or maybe you turn on the TV or the radio, and you hear.

I want you to really understand what that means for you and for all of us because I prefer for us to be motivated by what we're for, not what we're against. But I also think it's prudent to imagine what could happen if we don't do our part. And when in the future somebody asks you, maybe your kids or your grandkids, 'What did you do when everything was on the line?' I want you to be able to say, 'I voted for a better, fairer, stronger America.'

Let's go out and, in these next eight days, do everything we can to make it clear we're going after the kind of future that includes everybody. We're going to build this economy: new jobs, rising wages. We're going to make college affordable and help you pay down your student debt. We are going to do what will give you the best chance for your own lives and the lives of our kids and our grandkids. So if we build that future together, we will be able to say we were part of making sure that America's best days are still ahead of us. And we will prove, once and for all, that love trumps hate.

Thank you all.


Hello, Miami Dade College! It is so great to be here with all of you.

And I want to thank everyone for gathering and in particular, I want to thank all of the elected officials. Thanks to Congressman Patrick Murphy who I hope is the next senator from Florida. Thanks to Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz. Thank you to Mayor Phillip Levine of Miami Beach. Thanks to Mayor Phillip Stoddard of South Miami. Thanks to all the others who were part of the program. As we were coming in, we heard lots of energy coming from this crowd, and I was told as I was coming out, there's an overflow, but they can hear us in the overflow, and we're so happy you're here as well! So thanks to the overflow crowd. But what I am most excited about is to be here with one of the world's most foremost leaders on climate change: Al Gore.

About a decade ago, Al made a movie called 'An Inconvenient Truth.' Now, maybe some of you have seen it, but if you haven't, I hope you'll watch it tonight. It doesn't have a lot of special effects - but it does have a lot of drama.

And here's the main message: climate change is real, it's urgent, and America can take the lead in the world in addressing it. Right? We here in America can develop new clean energy solutions. We can transform our economy. We can rally the world to cut carbon pollution. And above all, we can fulfill our moral obligation to protect our planet for our children and our grandchildren.

Now, let me just say - so, so let's remember, let's remember what's at stake. I'm running against a guy who denies science, denies climate change, claims it's a hoax created by the Chinese. So this is something that Al Gore's been working on for a really long time. And I want you to know how far back he goes. It was in 1982 when he held the very first hearing on climate change in the House of Representatives with the world-famous climate scientist Jim Hansen. And then when Al became a senator, he continued to raise the alarm and look for solutions, and as vice president, he led America's efforts to negotiate the Kyoto Protocol to cut greenhouse gas emissions. You take all this together, those 30 years of leadership led Al Gore to be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007.

I was very proud because he had been determined and persistent, and in the face of a lot of people - in public life, in business, in elsewhere who were trying to diminish the importance of the science - he never wavered. And in the years since, the climate challenge has only grown more stark. And I will tell you this, it is one of the most important issues at stake in this election.

Look at it this way. Our next president will either step up our efforts to address climate change, to protect our planet, to protect our health, and to create good jobs that cannot be outsourced by growing our clean energy economy. Or in the alternative, we will be dragged backwards and our whole future will be put at risk.

So we've really got to get this right. And if you need additional convincing, just remember what happened this week. Hurricane Matthew killed at least 26 people in our country, more than a thousand as far as we know right now in Haiti. North Carolina is still dealing with serious flooding and will be at least for the rest of the week, if not longer. We all need to support each other as our communities put the pieces back together and begin the long road back from this disaster.

That's why I've encouraged everyone to give what you can afford to the Florida Disaster Fund or to Team Rubicon, the veterans organization working to respond to Hurricane Matthew, or to UNICEF, helping children and families on the ground in Haiti.

Now, some will say, 'We've always had hurricanes. They've always been destructive.' And that's true. But Hurricane Matthew was likely more destructive because of climate change. Right now, the ocean is at or near record-high temperatures - and that contributed to the torrential rainfall and the flash flooding that we saw in the Carolinas. Sea levels have already risen about a foot - one foot - in much of the Southeast, which means that Matthew's storm surge was higher and the flooding was more severe.

Plus, as you know, the impact of climate change goes beyond extreme events like hurricanes. It's become a daily reality here in Miami. You have streets in Miami Beach and in Shorecrest that are flooding at high tide. The ocean is bubbling up through the sewer system. Sometimes, people call 311 because they assume a water main must have broken when actually it is the sea rising around them.

So, if you need proof that climate change is real and that it's costly, there you go. So at this rate, at this rate, my friends, my friends, please. Let's focus on what's really important in this election and in your future and the future of our country, because this is what I want you to hear and understand. At the rate we are going, one in eight homes in Florida could be underwater by the end of the century, and when kids - like that adorable young boy over there on his dad's shoulders - are grandparents, we believe that's more than $400 billion worth of property in Florida at risk, and nationwide, it's as much as $882 billion in property at risk.

But there's also health consequences. Mosquitoes that carry diseases like the Zika virus and ticks that carry Lyme disease are expanding their ranges. And hotter summers and longer pollen seasons are making allergies and asthma worse, which is especially bad for our children. And look at what is happening in California, a brutal five-year drought. Wildfires have burned more than 9 million acres in our country last year.

And it's also about national security. The Pentagon has identified climate change as a threat to our America's national security. The U.S. Atlantic Fleet is based in Norfolk, Virginia. It's the largest naval installation in the world. And because of rising sea level, the base is frequently flooded, even when it's sunny. So that's why the Pentagon is looking at how climate change will affect readiness and operations, not just in Norfolk, but at all of our military bases around the world.

So you would think if you look at the facts, if you listen to the science, that even the most committed climate skeptic would say, 'Ok, I agree, something's happening here. We need to take it seriously.'

But unfortunately, there are still plenty of people - in Washington, on the campaign trail - who won't face what's happening right in front of us.

Donald Trump, is, quote, 'not a big believer' in climate change. As I said, he said it's a hoax created by the Chinese. And in our first debate two weeks ago, he tried to deny saying that. But that tweet is still there for everyone to see.

And I would wish that Donald would actually listen to people here in Florida, like Miami Beach's Mayor Philip Levine and others who are doing incredible work to address these 'Sunny Day' Floods. Or maybe, he would listen to Miami Beach Commissioner John Elizabeth Aleman. Or maybe he would listen to Miami Beach Commissioner, John Elizabeth Aleman. John Elizabeth is a Republican, but she's supporting our campaign-because she knows America can't afford a candidate who doesn't accept climate science. Or maybe Donald would listen to our military leaders who say climate change threatens our national security, or what about the ranchers in Colorado, or the mayors in Arizona or the community leaders in Alaska who say, 'Our lives and jobs and families are being affected - please, let's come together as a country and do something about it.'

We cannot risk putting a climate denier in the White House. At all, that is absolutely unacceptable.

We need a president who believes in science and who has a plan to lead America in facing this threat, creating good jobs, and yes, saving our planet.

So here's what I want to do.

First, we need to do a lot more on clean energy. The clean energy superpower of the 21st century is probably going to be either Germany, China, or us-and I want it to be us. And I want you to be part of making it us.

And we need to accelerate the transition to a clean energy economy and create high paying jobs, building and installing more solar panels and wind turbines. Modernizing our electric grid. Retrofitting buildings. Building resilient, 21st century infrastructure, and we have to make sure no community is left out or left behind-not our cities or our small towns or our remote, rural areas.

Now, you wouldn't know it if you only listened to my opponent talk about how terrible everything is. He has such a dark, divisive view of America, but that doesn't tell the story about what's really going on. It's actually pretty exciting. In red states and blue states, local leaders are stepping up. Rural electric co-ops are investing in community solar power and you see that across America - union workers in Michigan, union workers in Michigan are getting ready to build electric Chevys in a plant powered by clean energy. Iowa, Iowa is already getting a third of its electricity from wind. Wind turbines are going up in New England and on Lake Erie. Renewable energy is already the fastest-growing source of new jobs in America. I think that is so exciting - there are nearly 2 million people already working in energy efficiency.

And in Spartanburg, South Carolina, a project called ReGenesis is taking an old landfill and turning it into a solar farm. That landfill was a blight and a health threat, just 250 feet away from a residential neighborhood. Now, that same land will generate enough clean, renewable electricity to power 500 homes.

So this is what we can do. And I think Washington should back up and support doing more of that. As president, I want us to have 500 million solar panels installed across America by the end of my first term. And let's generate enough renewable energy to power every home in America within the decade. Let's make our buildings and factories more energy efficient and cut our oil consumption by one-third.

And we can get there by investing in cutting edge research, to keep developing cheaper and better clean energy technologies, investing in clean energy infrastructure and advanced manufacturing, putting big partnerships together between states, cities, and rural communities.

We can do all of this and create millions of good-paying jobs as we do. So I'm hoping that these good jobs will offer security and dignity while we produce the clean energy that will power the economy of the future. The clean energy solutions are being developed right here in America. We want them manufactured in America, installed in America, and putting people to work in America.

And while we do that, let's make sure our communities are ready for the impacts of climate change that are coming right at us. We need to invest in resilient infrastructure. Now, sometimes that will mean building a seawall; other times, let's be more creative - like in New York Harbor, where we are replanting oyster beds to form natural barriers to storm surge. Sometimes we'll overhaul an outdated sewer system to deal with flooding from heavy downpours. In Philadelphia, they're trying something else: green roofs, porous pavements, curbside gardens to help absorb storm water.

And here's something we don't talk enough about. Let's make sure our hospitals can stay open and operational in any kind of disaster. Because sadly, I saw what happened in New York during Hurricane Sandy, newborns who had been on respirators had to be evacuated down nine flights of stairs in one New York hospital, because the electricity went off. Nurses, I love nurses - heroic, courageous nurses were carrying those babies and manually squeezing bags of air to keep them breathing. Now, here in Miami, you know how important this is. You have retrofitted the Nicklaus Children's Hospital with a hurricane-resistant shell for exactly this reason. And every hospital in the country should follow your lead and build in more resilience.

And then finally, we have got to lead the world to confront the climate challenge. If we don't do it, nobody will do it. We must confront the climate challenge. There's no doubt about that. And so, let's move on with the kind of leadership that the world as well as our country deserves.

When I was Secretary of State, I worked with President Obama to make climate change a top diplomatic priority. We fought to get China and India and other major polluters to agree for the first time in history to be part of the solution. In fact, we had to crash a secret meeting in Copenhagen, Denmark - slip past the guards - it was all very cloak and dagger. But for a really important purpose, and because of that breakthrough, and a lot of patient, persistent work, and because of American leadership, 195 nations signed on to a global agreement last December. It's called the Paris Agreement. And I am not exaggerating when I say it is our last, best chance to solve the global, climate crisis.

And what does Donald Trump want to do? He wants to cancel the Paris Agreement. He doesn't care what it would do to the planet. He doesn't care how much that would damage American leadership in the world. He doesn't care what it would do to the future we leave our kids and our grandkids.

Well, he may not care - but we do. And that's why this election is so critically important because on the ballot, it is not just my name. It's every issue we care about it's our values as a country.

Climate change needs to be a voting issue. We need to elect people up and down the ballot, at every level of government, who take it seriously and are willing to roll up their sleeves and get something done. Please, we cannot keep sending climate deniers and defeatists to Congress or to state houses-and certainly not to the White House.

And if you care about climate, your Senate race is also really important, and I'll tell you why. It is unacceptable, it is an unacceptable response for Marco Rubio, when asked about climate change to say, 'I'm not a scientist.' Well, why doesn't he ask a scientist and then maybe then he'd understand why it is so important that he, representing Florida, be committed to climate change? That's why I hope that you'll elect Patrick Murphy to the United States Senate.

Look, we need leaders who can get results. It's easy to stonewall. It's not enough to protest: we need creativity, we need hard work. And when it comes to climate change, we don't have a minute to waste.

So, I know it's easy to get cynical-especially about our politics. I get that. But this election matters more than any has in a really long time, and I believe that as strongly as I can, we've got to address this issue for our sakes, our children, our grandchildren. And it's so critically important when you think about how leadership can make a difference.

And just look, if you will - look at the difference between your state, the Sunshine State, which has less solar energy than New Jersey has right now. And do you know why? Because you have a governor who has ordered the state government never to use the words 'climate change.' So my friends, this is a big deal in the election, and it is going to be a big deal for our country and our world. And there isn't anybody - there isn't anybody who knows more, has done more, has worked harder. I know he was in Miami just last year, training and educating people to be climate change activists. I can't wait to have Al Gore advising me when I am President of the United States. So please join me in welcoming our former vice president, a climate change leader and an all-around great guy, Al Gore.


Hello! Thank you! Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you so very much. Wow, what - what a wonderful welcome. It is great to be here in Fort Pierce in this beautiful theater. I love being in the Sunshine State. I really want to recognize a few people: U.S. Congresswoman Lois Frankel is here as you saw, Randy Perkins, a candidate for Congress, Kim Johnson, chair of the St. Lucie County Commission, Larry Lee Jr., state representative. Everyone, all of the elected officials, all of the students and young people, it is wonderful to be with you.

And I want to thank Eileen for her introduction. We know how hard that nurses like Eileen work, and now that she is retired, she is volunteering for our campaign. This woman never quit, and Eileen, we are so glad you are on our team.

I am grateful to all of the elected officials, all of the commissioners, the county commissioners, Martin County, St. Lucie, for all you do for the community, but especially for all you did this summer to clean up the algae that polluted the water, that threatened wildlife and made life hard for local residents and businesses. This is a serious and complicated problem, isn't it, for the entire Treasure Coast. And it is a reminder, if we needed it, how important good leadership is. So, I thank all the leaders for their commitment.

Now, there are just 39 days between now and November 8th. Just 39 days left in the most important election in our lifetimes.

We've got to make every single day count. We have to get more people registered to vote, get more people committed to turn out to vote. We have to drive home the stakes in this election: stronger families, safer communities and an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top. And underneath all of the rhetoric and the coverage and the back and forth, this campaign really comes down to two questions. What kind of future we want for ourselves, our kids and our grandkids, and how do we make it a reality?

Now, as I said it the other night - how many of you saw the debate?

Well as I said, I now have two grandchildren, and no offense to anybody, the two most wonderful, amazing, extraordinary. A little girl and a little boy. So I think a lot about the future. And you may have noticed that my opponent and I have different views about - well, nearly everything when it gets right down to it - not just about what makes America great, because I think America already is great - but about what we should do to make it even greater, and about that basic question about how progress happens at all.

My opponent believes in what I call a 'strongman approach.' He stood on that stage at his convention and described a hopeless, broken nation. I am sorry, I am looking at you. I don't see that. That in no way resembles the strong, vibrant America I know. And here's what he said. He said, 'I alone can fix it.' I alone?

Well, we have learned that that's his way. One person getting supreme power and exercising it ruthlessly. That's why he admires dictators like Vladimir Putin so much. But that's not how change happens in America. It's never just one person, not even someone as powerful as the president. Every good our country has ever achieved has always happened because people have worked together to make it a reality. Not just the wealthy or the powerful - all of us.

We see that every day across America, and I bet many of you have been a part of it. Maybe you taught kids to read, right? Or cleaned up your local park, or the beach, maybe you have organized a cancer walk, or you have run a food drive. Whatever it is, chances are you have done something to serve your community. And by extension, your country.

How many of you - just think back over your lives - how many of you have performed some kind of service of some sort for your community, for other people. The reason I know you have is because tens and tens of millions of Americans do some kind of volunteering in your hometowns every single year. It's one of the best things about the American people. We are doers. We don't just shrug our shoulders when we see something that needs fixing, we don't get resigned or pathetic, or blame other people and turn on each other to find scapegoats. We roll up our sleeves, we get to work to try to make things better in our neighborhood, our community, our city, our state, our country.

This has been our story, the American story, since the beginning of our nation, and it is still going strong today. Now, for many Americans, including a lot of you here, serving our country has included serving in our Armed Forces.

People are starting to call out their services!

There is no greater service or sacrifice, and we are grateful to our men and women in uniform, to their families and our veterans every single day. But what's so great is that national service can take many different forms, and it's something that I believe in so deeply, that every stage of our lives gives us the chance, from grade school through grandparenthood, to find a way to give back.

We've got folks here today from AmeriCorps, which my husband created back in 1993, and I'll tell you, to this day, it is one of his proudest achievements. Because very day, AmeriCorps volunteers are out there. They're building houses, responding to natural disasters, helping people with disabilities find jobs, find safe places to live, and next week, on October 7th, AmeriCorps will celebrate a major milestone: their one-millionth member. I'll tell you, Bill is really excited about this and so am I. And by the way, AmeriCorps has one of the best swearing in pledges I have ever heard. Here's how it starts: 'I will get things done for America.' Isn't that great? I think we should make that a national slogan.

Now we also have folks here today from City Year, which is part of AmeriCorps. And every day, they're working with students who are risk of dropping out of school. They're tutoring and mentoring and running after school clubs - all to help young people really discover how capable they really are and to be empowered and to stay in school. I'm really grateful to them.

We also have people here today from the Peace Corps, which represents the best of America to the world. Peace Corps volunteers are teaching English in Kosovo, staffing health centers in Nicaragua, supporting farmers in Nepal, distributing malaria nets in Uganda. Both as First Lady and as Secretary of State, I got to see the results of their work first hand. They are making the world a healthier, more prosperous and more peaceful place. Now, maybe not all of you have been a part of one of these programs, but I know you serve in different ways.

Maybe you volunteer through your school, or with your church or synagogue. Maybe you find through faith-based opportunities, as I did when I was a teenager, service opportunities. Because for many Americans, service is part of our faith. My running mate, Tim Kaine, volunteered in Honduras with Jesuits as a young man, and it changed his life. Or maybe your whole family volunteers together, Bill and Chelsea and I, every holiday season, would work at a food bank back in Arkansas. However you serve, it feels good, doesn't it? To be part of something bigger than ourselves. To take our time and labor, and put it towards something good that can happen in our country and the world.

And you know something very interesting? Service makes us happier, it makes us healthier, and there are studies proving that. It's not just how we feel, they've actually followed people. It can also help us find our next job, or our true calling in life. It's a smart way to use our greatest asset in life, our people. And service does something important for us as a society. Too often, we Americans can become separated from each other, and I think a lot of people are feeling this way during this election.

It's easy to surround ourselves with only those that think like us, talk like us, look like us, read the same news as us, that's understandable to an extent. But it comes with a cost because it magnifies our differences, which then makes it harder to put those differences aside when our community or country needs us. There aren't many places where people of all ages, all races, all backgrounds, all beliefs come together in common cause. But service is one of them, and that's one of the reasons I think it's so valuable, because in addition to the good work it does, it helps us reconnect with each other to feel more a part of our shared American life.

I believe that one of the jobs of President is to encourage more service, to help more Americans answer President Kennedy's call. You know it: Ask not what your country can do for you but what you can do for your country.'

But sometimes it's hard to figure out. How do you make a difference, especially with everything else going on in our lives? And too often volunteering becomes something only people with lots of time and financial security can do. But that's not how it should be. Everyone should be able to contribute.

So what if we, as a country, made it easier for everybody to do that, for everybody to give back? What if we created more service opportunities for Americans of all ages, invested in programs that work and encouraged entrepreneurs to add a social component to their businesses? What if we strengthened the culture of service in America so it wasn't just something that we did one day a year, but it became a regular part of our lives. I think that would reflect our values and would tap into something so great about America.

I talk a lot about how America is an exceptional nation. We're not exceptional just because of the size of our military or the size of our economy. We're exceptional because of the generosity and ingenuity of our people.

Way back, nearly 200 years ago, a Frenchman came to the United States, his name was Alexis de Tocqueville. He was travelling around, trying to figure out, 'What is this new place called America? They fought a revolution. Who are they?' And he saw how we had set up our government, and we had three branches, and everything that our founders really put into place. But the thing that made the biggest impression on him was our spirit of volunteerism that made a democracy as diverse and ambitious as ours possible. If I'm elected president this fall, I want to build on that strength by making a major push in support of more national service. So here's what I plan to do.

First, let's triple AmeriCorps. That was the goal of my friend and the great Senator Ted Kennedy. It was laid out in a law named in his honor, the Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act. It's finally time we get it done. Every year there are hundreds of thousands of more applications for AmeriCorps than there are spots in the program, so if we grow the program from 75,000 annual members to 250,000, we're going to give more people who already want to serve the chance to do so.

Then I want to double the college scholarships that AmeriCorps members earn through their service, and I want to find ways for more students to get college credit for service because I know too many talented, committed young people who pass up serving with AmeriCorps because, with their student loans, they can't afford it. So let's lighten that burden. If you do national service, we will begin a program to forgive your loans, because you are giving back to your country. And let's keep working to the ultimate goal of making it possible for any American to serve full time if they want to.

Now second, let's grow the Peace Corps. Since President Kennedy launched it 55 years ago, it's given nearly a quarter of a million Americans the experience of a lifetime, and it's fostered friendship and cooperation between Americans and people in more than 100 nations. We've got to do more of that in the world today. We need more Americans of all ages around the world showing our values, serving people. So let's make it possible for more Americans to be a part of this extraordinary program.

Third, let's expand service opportunities for people of all ages. Right? Now, let's be fair, the younger generation is way ahead on this. I've talked to so many young people who are deeply thoughtful about how your lives impact others and the world. Service isn't just something to do to check a box before graduation, it really is woven into your lives. And many who are just getting started in your careers, say that having a social impact is more important to you than getting a job that yes, may pay a salary but doesn't give you any meaning or purpose in your lives.

Now I also want to get older Americans more involved. Service isn't something only students and young people do. I know that. So I intend to make sure that 10 percent of AmeriCorps slots go to Americans over the age of 55. Let's give people an encore opportunity after they've ended their formal careers so they can apply a lifetime of knowledge and experience to a stronger community.

And finally, I want to create a new means for people to serve in serious, meaningful ways without a full time commitment. AmeriCorps is a full time commitment. The Peace Corps is a full time commitment. The Armed Forces are a full time commitment. But the Armed Forces has another model. The Reserves - right? It gives people the chance to make a high impact contribution while still building careers and pursuing their dreams in other ways. So let's do something like that in the civilian space. Let's call it the National Service Reserve.

And here's the idea. If you join the National Service Reserve, you will receive some basic training, just like you would in the military reserves, and then when your city or state needs you, you'll get the call. Say a natural disaster strikes and the Red Cross needs all hands on deck. Or maybe, like the crisis in Flint, and clean water has to be distributed every day to a lot of families. Or maybe your city launches a major public health campaign to reduce drug abuse or promote mental health. You will then be sent into action. Now some of these assignments maybe just be for a few days, a month, some might be longer term. But they will directly address a vital need in your own community.

And one of the other advantages is you can help meet that need while still being a full-time student, having a job, taking care of your family. You won't have to make service your only priority. Our goal is 5 million people spread across all 50 states, and we will have an open door to people of all ages, but we want to put a special focus on people under 30 who've said again and again they want to have a bigger impact in their communities, but they can't leave their jobs, understandably. We'll work with governors and mayors, Republicans and Democrats, because I want this to be a true bipartisan, public-private partnership.

I also want to include businesses, colleges and universities who have unique resources to offer. And because we want workers and students to know that as they make this contribution, their schools and their employers will have their backs. I really think a National Service Reserve could make a difference for cities and states. There's so much work to be done and so many people who want to help do it. So let's bridge that divide, get people working together in ways that can help communities.

Now, I don't think you'll hear anything about this from my opponent. And you know what? I think that's a shame, because national service has always been a bipartisan goal. Of course, President Kennedy started the Peace Corps and my husband started AmeriCorps - but President Nixon signed the Domestic Volunteer Service Act. President George H.W. Bush created the White House Office of National Service. And both President George W. Bush and President Obama have been huge champions of service. This should be something that we all can get behind. And when you listen to what's being said in this campaign, it can be discouraging, right? It can seem hard to find any common ground so it makes it even more important that we come together where, whenever we can. Now, I am well aware that candidates don't usually focus on national service in the final stretch of a hotly fought presidential election. Some might say, 'Well hey, my gosh, you've only got 39 days to go. Why aren't you just out there beating up on your opponent and doing everything to get the vote out and all the rest of it? Well, I'll do that, but - I've been thinking about this for a long time, and I did not want this campaign to end without talking about it because it means a lot to me. I'm trying to end the campaign focusing on issues that are really close to my heart - and this is one of them.

Thank you!

For me, service is really all about fulfilling the instruction of my Methodist faith, and you can see part of the creed I like to follow behind me: 'Do all the good you can, in all the ways you can, in all the places you can, at all the times you can, to all the people you can, as long as ever you can.' Now, I've carried those words with me ever since I heard them as a little girl, and it's an idea that really got into my head and my heart. But you know what's kept me going are the people that I've met. And in a country founded on liberty and equality, I can't think of a more important notion than every one of us is valuable. We all deserve respect. We all should listen to each other. We all can make our mark on the world. And when we come together in common purpose, we can do so much more than we could ever do on our own.

That's why 'Stronger Together' is more than just a slogan. It's a course of action. So here's what I want to do. I want you to hear me pledge that this will be a vital aspect of my presidency. And I want you to help me bring our nation together - to solve our problems, strengthen our communities. To join with people across America who care about service, because this speaks to both what is great and good about the United States. America is great because we are good. There are lots of examples. We are going to be putting examples up on my website of people who have served and who are inspirations. But I want everybody here to know that it can be done. We can do more, and we can provide the opportunities to enlist more people.

There are so many examples in this community and communities across America - 39 days left. This is the choice: do we lift each other up, or do we tear each other down? Do we listen and respect each other, or do we scapegoat, point fingers, and insult each other? Well, I'll tell you what side I'm going to be on, and with your help, we're going to demonstrate on November 8th, what kind of country we really are.

Thank you and God bless you!


Hello, Orlando! Wow. Thank you all so much. I am so happy to be back and I want to thank all of you for being here today at the Frontline Outreach Youth and Family Center, which does so much good work in the community. I want to acknowledge your terrific mayor, Mayor Buddy Dyer, who was here earlier. I want to thank Pastor Wynn, Tiffany Namey, the chair of the Orange County Disability Caucus, and everyone - especially Val Demings. Where's Val? Val - I know - got this crowd really whipped up, and I want you to stay whipped up for Val. She is going to be a great member of Congress for everything that we care about and are fighting for.

I want to thank Anastasia for that introduction. Didn't she do an amazing job? I first met Anastasia when she was nine years old. She raised her hand at a town hall and she said, 'My twin sister can't speak. Because of that, they put her in a separate class, apart from the rest of the kids. But she can communicate with a computer. And she's very smart and would do just as well as anyone else, if the principal and teachers would just give her a chance.' I was just blown away by this nine-year-old girl - her confidence and how much she loved her sister.

So Anastasia and I have stayed in touch over the years. When she grew up, she became an intern in the Senate. I was so proud of her speech at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia too. And I'm very excited that she's here with us today.

I also want to thank Orlando. It's great to be back in this wonderful city with all of you. You've been through a lot this year. And what has been so notable is you've responded with grace. You've shown the world what Orlando is made of - strength, love and kindness. This is something we could all use more of right now.

I'm here today to talk about how to make our economy work for everyone, but first, I need to say something about two very upsetting incidents that took place over the past few days. First, an unarmed man named Terence Crutcher was shot and killed by a police officer in Tulsa. Then, a man named Keith Lamont Scott was shot and killed by a police officer in Charlotte. I'm sending condolences and prayers to their families; I know a lot of you are as well.

There is still much we don't know about what happened in both incidents. But we do know that we have two more names to add to a list of African Americans killed by police officers in these encounters. It's unbearable. And it needs to become intolerable.

We also saw the targeting of police officers in Philadelphia last week. And last night in Charlotte, 12 officers were injured in demonstrations following Keith Lamont Scott's death. Every day, police officers across our country are serving with extraordinary courage, honor and skill. We saw that again this weekend in New York and New Jersey and Minnesota. Our police handled those terrorist attacks exactly right. And they likely saved a lot of lives. I've spoken to many police chiefs and other law enforcement leaders who are as deeply concerned as I am and deeply committed, as I am, to reform. Why? Because they know it is essential for the safety of our communities and our officers. We are safer when communities respect the police and police respect communities.

I've also been privileged to spend a lot of time with mothers who have lost children, and young people who feel that, as far as their country's concerned, their lives seem disposable. We've got to do better. And I know we can. And if I'm elected president, we will - and we will do it exactly together, which is the only way it can be done.

Look, I know I don't have all the answers. I don't know anyone who does. But this is certain: too many people have lost their lives who shouldn't have.

Sybrina Fulton has become a friend of mine. Her son, Trayvon Martin, was killed not far from where we are today. Sybrina says, 'This is about saving our children.' And she's absolutely right. We need to come together, work together - white, black, Latino, Asian, all of us - to turn the tide, stop the violence, build the trust. We need to give all of our kids, no matter who they are, the chance to grow up safe and healthy in their communities and in our country.

Now, there are so many issues we need to take on together, and that's why we're here today. Because in just 48 days - can you believe it, 48 days - Americans will go to the polls and choose our next president. Well, I hope so. I hope so. I want to just stress that our campaign is about the fundamental belief that, in America, every person, no matter what you look like, who you are, who you love, you should have the chance to go as far as your hard work and dreams will take you. And that is the basic bargain that made our country great, and it's our job to make sure it's there for you and future generations.

Building an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top, is the central challenge of our time. And I take it personally, because I'm a proud product of the American middle class. My grandfather started working in a lace mill in Scranton, Pennsylvania, when he was just a boy, and worked there for 50 years. Thanks to him, my dad was able to go to college and then start his own small business, printing fabric for draperies. And because of my dad and my mom, I could head out into the world and follow my dreams.

Every American family should be able to write a similar story for themselves and their children. And history has shown us - our history has shown us that the strongest growth in our economy is inclusive, broad-based growth - when everyone can contribute to our prosperity and share in its rewards.

Now, here is just one example. The flood of women into the American workforce over the past several decades was responsible for more than $3.5 trillion in economic growth. But as women's labor participation has slowed in recent years, due in part to our failure to provide family-friendly policies like paid leave and affordable childcare, so our economic growth wasn't as strong as it could have been. Women who want to work deserve to work. And whenever they are denied that opportunity, it's not fair to them - and we all lose out. In a competitive 21st century global economy, we cannot afford to leave talent on the sidelines. When we leave people out or write them off, we not only shortchange them and their dreams, we shortchange our country and our own futures.

That's one reason why I care so much about supporting working parents. It's one reason why I'm such a strong supporter of comprehensive immigration reform. Because bringing millions of undocumented workers into the formal economy will decrease abuse and exploitation, and it will increase our economic breath and our tax base. It is estimated if we did this, despite what you hear from the other side, we would increase our gross domestic product by an estimated $700 billion in 10 years. Now, we need that.

It's also one reason why we've got to break down barriers of systemic racism, including under-investment that has held communities of color back for generations. That's part of building an inclusive economy, too. And it's why I believe we need to do more to help young people, who are left behind in the wake of the Great Recession, find those strategies and opportunities that will get them moving ahead again. And we've got to help older Americans who've displaced by automation and outsourcing in our changing economy.

And too often, training and retraining doesn't work as it should. If you don't have a four-year degree, if you haven't really had the chance to upgrade your skills over the years, it's hard to just make a course correction. We need to have apprenticeships and community college and technical programs, starting in high school and moving all the way up to older workers. Whether you're trying to start your career or you've spent decades contributing to our economy, you deserve better.

Now, these are some of the elements of my plan for an inclusive economy, and I'm going to hold up the book Tim Kaine and I have put out because we've actually put in one place all of our plans. You see, we have this old-fashioned idea if we're asking you to support us, we should tell you what we're going to do. Right? And today I want to focus on one area that hasn't gotten enough attention. It concerns a group of Americans who are too often invisible, overlooked, and undervalued, who have so much to offer but are given too few chances to prove it. Now, that's been true for a long time, and we have to change it.

I'm talking about people with disabilities, men and women, boys and girls, who have talents, skills, ideas, and dreams for themselves and their families just like anybody else. Whether they can participate in our economy and lead rich, full lives that are as healthy and productive as possible is a reflection on us as a country. And right now, in too many ways, we are falling short. We've got to face that and do better for everyone's sake because this really does go to the heart of who we are as Americans. I intend this to be a vital aspect of my presidency.

I want to bring us together as a nation to recognize the humanity and support the potential of all of our people. And I want you to hear this because this is not well-known. Nearly one in five Americans lives with a disability. Now, some of those disabilities are highly visible, some much harder to notice. If you don't know you know someone with a disability, I promise you, you do. But their disability is just one part of who they are.

Across the country, people with disabilities are running businesses, teaching students, caring for our loved ones. They're holding public office, making breakthrough scientific discoveries, reporting the news, and creating art that inspires and challenges us. They're veterans whose service and sacrifice has protected our freedom and kept our country safe. They're working in the White House. Just last year a young woman named Leah Katz-Hernandez became the first West Wing receptionist who is deaf. So when world leaders come to the White House, the person who greets them is Leah. Think of the message that sends about how our nation sees the talent in everyone.

And Americans with disabilities are working on presidential campaigns. I know because several of my staff and advisors have disabilities, and they're doing phenomenal work. I'm grateful to them every single day. And people all over America would say the same about their boss, their colleague, their employee, their family member with a disability.

Now, over the past few days, our country has taken leaps forward, not just in recognizing the humanity and dignity of people with disabilities, but in making long-overdue changes in our schools, workplaces, and communities so everyone can be part of our shared American life. Even so, not that long ago if you had a disability - if you couldn't see, couldn't walk, lived with dyslexia or muscular dystrophy or some other health issue - that one fact was allowed to define your entire life. Because of that and that alone, the world was closed to you. Not all of it and not for everyone, but for most people, basic essential things that others could do you couldn't and never would. And that was that.

I saw this for myself, as Anastasia said, years ago when I was just starting out as a young lawyer working with the Children's Defense Fund. One of my first assignments was to figure out why so many American kids weren't in school. We looked at census tract numbers and we said, okay. How many young people between five and 18 live in this census tract? Then we would look at school enrollment numbers, and there'd be a gap. And we would say, wait a minute. Where are the kids? Why aren't they in school?
